EPV of OPC cost will choose to delay. We
simplify this computation by approximating a
necessary condition for delay, ignoring the in-
fluence on expected cost today of the additional
information and contingent decisions that will
be gained as future health conditions and phar-
macy bills are realized. This approximation was
found to be reasonably accurate in a study of
retirement decisions by Robin L. Lumsdaine et
al. (1994). We implement this calculation using
U. S. Life tables, estimates from the Health and
Retirement Survey of the annual probability of
developing a condition requiring a new pre-
scription drug therapy, and estimates from our
survey and the MCBS of the distribution of
annual drug costs for a new therapy.5
Figure 2 gives the thresholds we obtain using
this approximation; these apply to people who
do not receive means-tested premium reduc-
tions. There are four factors that may modify

this calculation for an individual. First, addi-
tional information on health that will be re-
vealed in the future, and decisions contingent on
this information, give delay some added option
value. Second, risk aversion gives immediate
enrollment added insurance value. Trial calcu-
lations indicate that the full option pricing cal-
culation, and risk aversion for a person with
moderate coefficient of absolute risk aversion,
have effects on the threshold for delay that are
relatively small, on the order of $100 or less.
Third, individuals may have different personal
probabilities for new health conditions and pre-
scription drug requirements than the ones we
have used. Fourth, individuals may have differ-
ent discount rates than the 5-percent discount
rate we have employed. For people with 2005
pharmacy bills above $802, the option of delay-
ing enrollment is "out of the money"-these
people can expect to reduce their OPC for pre-
scription drugs in 2006 with Part D coverage, in
addition to being insured against risks of high
future bills. The difference between the $802
threshold and the $842 break-even level for a
consumer's current pharmacy bill is the ex-
pected value of the consumer's new pharmacy