
'For competition to be effective it is not necessary that competition is either pure or
perfect or that all or any of the markets in which the firm buys or sells are perfect.
10 Several of my statements, if I presented them without source reference, might well be
mistaken for quotations from critics of marginalism, including behavioralists and man-
agerialists. Here are samples [21]: ". . . a business man is motivated by considerations
other than the maximization of money profits"; "it is preferable to separate the non-
pecuniary factors of business conduct from those which are regular items in the formation
of money profits" (p. 526); "one may presume that producing larger production volumes
[or] paying higher wage rates . . . than would be compatible with a maximum of money
profits may involve for the business man a gain in social prestige or a certain measure of
inner satisfaction"; "it is not impossible that considerations of this sort substantially
weaken the forces believed to be at work on the basis of a strictly pecuniary marginal
calculus"; for patriotic reasons during the war "many firms produced far beyond the point
of highest money profits"; "the conflict of interests between the hired managers and the
owners of the business" may call for "important qualifications" (p. 527); "the interest
of the former in inordinately large outlays or investments may be capable of descriptions
in terms of a pecuniary calculus, but it is not maximization of the firm's profits which
serves here as the standard of conduct" (pp. 527-28); "maximization of salaries and
bonuses of professional managers may constitute a standard of business conduct different
from that implied in the customary marginal analysis of the firm"; and "the extent to
which the two standards would result in sharply different action under otherwise similar
conditions is another open question in need of investigation" (p. 528).