the bulk of our research work deals with particulars that give less
scope to mere vision and are more strictly controlled by objective testsâ€•
but not wholly so. Take, for instance, the theory of saving which does
appear in a wider context in the Keynesian system but might also,
factually and theoretically, be treated by itself. From the time of
Turgot and Smith-in fact from still earlier times-to the time of
Keynes all the major propositions about its nature and effects have,
by slow accretion, been assembled so that, in the light of the richer
supply of facts we command today, there should be little room left
for difference of opinion. It should be easy to draw up a summarizing
(though perhaps not very exciting) analysis that the large majority of
professional economists might accept as a matter of course. But there
is, and always has been, eulogistic or vituperative preaching on the
subject that, assisted by terminological tricks such as the confusion.
between saving and nonspending, has succeeded in producing a sham
antagonism between the writers on the subject. Much emphasized dif-
ferences in doctrine for which there is no factual or analytical basis
always indicate, though in themselves they do not prove, the presence
of ideological bias on one side or on both-which in this case hails
from two different attitudes to the bourgeois scheme of life.
Another instance of sectional ideology of this kind is afforded by
the attitude of many, if not most economists, toward anything in any
way connected with monopoly (oligopoly) and cooperative price set-
ting (collusion). This attitude has not changed since Aristotle and
Molina although it has acquired a partially new meaning under the
conditions of modern industry. Now as then, a majority of economists
would subscribe to Molina's dictum: monopolium est injustum et rei
publicae injuriosum. But it is not this value judgment which is rele-
vant to my argument-one may dislike modern largest-scale business
exactly as one may dislike many other features of modern civilization
-but the analysis that leads up to it and the ideological influence.
that this analysis displays. Anyone who has read Marshall's Principles,
still more anyone who has also read his Industry and Trade, should
know that among the innumerable patterns that are covered by those
terms there are many of which benefit and not injury to economic
efficiency and the consumers' interest ought to be predicated. More
modern analysis permits to show still more clearly that no sweeping
or unqualified statement can be true for all of them; and that the
mere facts of size, single-sellership, discrimination, and cooperative
price setting are in themselves inadequate for asserting that the
resulting performance is, in any relevant sense of the word, inferior
to the one which could be expected under pure competition in condi-
tions attainable under pure competition-in other words, that economic